Todd good day everyone
I already bring you the latest on the
corona virus pandemic here is the
president with today's daily briefing
distancing that the media has been much
nicer I don't know what it is all these
empty piece in between chairs we
probably shouldn't have anybody sitting
behind you either you know I should
probably go back but I love it it's so
much nicer but I shouldn't say that
because you'll get me now thank you all
for being here and we continue our
relentless effort to defeat the Chinese
virus before I begin I want to start by
announcing that today we are bringing
home another American citizen it was a
big thing very big mom our fate Corey is
on his way back to the United States
after being imprisoned in Lebanon since
September of 2019 he's battling
late-stage cancer mr. Hikari
will now be able to receive the much
needed care and treatment in the United
States we've been working very hard to
get him freed and he's finally able to
have his entire family at his side so
I'm very grateful to the Lebanese
government they worked with us and we
are very proud of his family they stood
by him so strongly and they are thrilled
the United States has no higher priority
than the safety and well-being of our
citizens we've gotten a tremendous
number of hostages out as you know I
think we're 42 and oh and Robert O'Brien
as you know was or chief negotiator for
a large part of it in fact did so well
that now we have him in a different
position so I want to thank and
congratulate Robert and his team and I
want to let everyone know that
recovering Americans held captive and
imprisoned abroad continues to be a top
priority for my administration we have
one young gentleman Austin Tice and
we're working very hard with Syria to
get him out we hope the Syrian
government will
that counting on them to do that we've
written a letter just recently but he's
been there for a long time and was
captured long ago Austin Tice his
mother's probably watching and she's a
great lady and we're doing the best we
can
so Syria please work with us and we
would appreciate your letting them out
of you think about what we've done we've
gotten rid of the Isis Caliphate in
Syria we've done a lot for Syria we have
to see if they're going to do this so it
would be very much appreciated if they
would let Austin Tice out immediately as
you know my administration is working
every day to protect American people and
the American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses a big thing
we're providing sick leave and family
medical leave to those affected by the
virus and more health is on the way as
we speak our entire team headed by
secretary minuchin is on the hill we're
working with Democrats and Republicans
and there's a lot of goodwill going on
this was something that happened that
[Music]
was some people would say an act of God
I don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as something that just surprised
the whole world and if people would have
known about it it could have stopped
been stopped in place it could have been
stopped right where it came from China
if we would have known about it if they
would have known about it
but now the whole world almost is
inflicted with this horrible with this
horrible virus and it's too bad it's too
bad because we never had an economy as
good as the economy we had just a few
weeks ago but we'll be back and I
actually think we'll be back stronger
than ever before because we learned a
lot during
spirit of - I also just invoked the
defense production Act to help
facilitate distribution of essential
supplies if necessary we're working with
Congress to provide major additional
relief to the workers small businesses
and the hardest hit industries we want
to make sure that everybody is able to
continue on so that when we recover all
of these companies and these great
businesses both very very small and very
very large they're not gonna be broken
up and you'd have to put them back
together that would take a long time
because we really believe in I believe
in the V curve I believe it's gonna go
when this is when this is defeated this
hidden scourge is defeated I think we're
gonna go up very rapidly our economy and
get back to where it was and beyond
today I want to share with you exciting
progress that the FDA is making with the
private sector as we slash red tape like
nobody has ever done it before somebody
was on yesterday or one of the networks
and said that there's never been a
president even close that's been able to
do what I've done in slashing all of the
red tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time it was just a
few weeks and that would have taken
years to do not so long ago as we race
to develop a vaccine we're also pursuing
antiviral therapies and that's what
really we're going to be talking to you
about today that's the purpose of being
up here today and to me that's even more
important the vaccine by its nature you
have to have long tests because you have
to make sure what goes into somebody's
body is not going to do destruction do
bad things so you need long tests and
they're doing great with the
scenes but it's still a long process but
the therapies are something we can move
on much faster potentially and the
treatments that we'll be able to reduce
the severity or duration of the symptoms
make people better essentially was
looking at things to make people better
or at the very earliest stages they
wouldn't even know they had it and
that's where I believe it's going to
work even the best the FDA Commissioner
Steven on who's with us is fantastic and
he's been working 24 hours a day he's
been he's worked like probably as hard
or harder than anybody in this in the
group other than maybe Mike Pence or me
and what the FDA is doing is incredible
they've done things in times that were
not even thinkable and I've directed the
FDA to eliminate outdated rules and
bureaucracy so this work can proceed
rapidly quickly and I mean vast and we
have to remove every barrier there were
a lot of barriers that were unnecessary
and they've done that to get the rapid
deployment of safe effective treatments
and we think we have some good answers
we'll find out very very soon
clinical trials are already underway for
many new therapies and we're working on
scaling these to allow many more
Americans to access different drugs that
have shown really good promise that on
really good promise we will do so in a
way that lets us continue to collect
good data to know which medicines are
safe and which medicines are working the
best we have a couple that where we're
in really good shape on and that's for
immediate delivery immediate like
as fast as we can get it the FDA has
also approved compassionate use for a
significant number of patients you know
what that means we're also reviewing
drugs that are approved abroad or drugs
approved here for other uses and you
know one of the things that I'm most
proud of that I got was right to try
that's where somebody who's ill somebody
who's very sick terminally ill usually
in past administrations we signed us a
year and a half ago you wouldn't be able
to even think about getting any of the
drugs that may be showing great promise
now and they've been trying for many
decades to get this approved and it
sounds simple but it's not because it's
liability involved and lots of other
things
and I was able to get it approved
working with Congress right to try this
is beyond right to try what we're
talking about today is beyond right to
try the right to try a spin by the way
tremendous success people are living now
that had no chance of living where we
take treatments that would things that
that would have to go through years of a
process and if somebody was terminally
ill and I would say why wouldn't they be
able to try this they'd go to Asia they
go to Europe they'd go all over the
world to try and find something or some
people have they had no money we'd go
home to die they'd go home to die they
had no hope right to try it's been an
incredible success but this is beyond
right to try if treatment is known to be
safe in Europe Japan or other nations
are effective against the virus will use
that information to protect the health
and safety of American people nothing
will stand in our way as we pursue any
Avenue to find what best works against
this horrible virus now a drug called
chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine so chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong arthritis somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time so we know that if it if
if things don't go as planned it's not
going to kill anybody when you go with a
brand new drug you don't know that
that's gonna happen you have to see and
you have to go long tests but this has
been used in different forms very
powerful drug in different forms and
it's shown very encouraging very very
encouraging early results and we're
going to be able to make that drug
available almost immediately and that's
where the FDA has been so great they
they've gone through the approval
process it's been approved and they did
it they took it down from many many
months to immediate so we're gonna be
able to make that drug available by
prescription or States I spoke with
Governor Cuomo about it at great length
last night and he wants to be right on
on the he wants to be first on the line
and so I think that's a tremendous is
tremendous promise based on the results
and other tests this tremendous promise
and normally the FDA would take a long
time to approve something like that and
it's it was approved very very quickly
and it's now approved by prescription
individual states will handle it they
can handle it doctors will handle it
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study if they're there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's where MD sir
voir room devar and that's a drug used
for other purposes that's been out and
said very good results for other
purposes but it seems to have a very
good result having to do with this virus
and that drug also has been approved or
very close to approved in that case by
the FDA and I can't tell you how much we
appreciate what the FDA these people are
incredible Patriots and the job that
Stephen Han is doing dr. Han was one of
the most respected doctors in the
country by the way well we took him I
said you sure you want to do this now we
didn't know that this was going to be in
the playlist what happened here but he
really has stepped up to the plate well
who you are words shake his head but I'm
not supposed to do that getting a lot of
trouble if I did but he's been fantastic
and I thank you doctor he's gonna speak
right after I'm finished so Regeneron
again and some is a company that's done
fantastically well as I understand with
Ebola and some other things great
company and they're looking at some very
promising events also so you have rim
desks of voir and you have cleric wind
and hydro hydroxychloroquine so those
are two that are out now essentially
approved for prescribe use and I think
it's going to be very exciting I think
it could be
the game changer and maybe not and maybe
not but I think it could be based on
what I see it could be a game changer
very powerful they're very powerful
so I want every American to know that
we're doing everything we can and these
actions are important next steps I mean
for the FDA to act the way they acted
with this kind of speed is an incredible
thing normally they'd say well we could
have it by next year or we could have it
by in two years from now you understand
this is the way normally it's like years
and years and years they had it
immediately based on the fact that it's
been used for other things totally
unrelated things we believe these
therapeutics and others under evaluation
right now will be able to provide relief
to many Americans we really hope that's
going to be this could be a tremendous
breakthrough tremendous breakthrough and
we will work toward a much needed to
vaccine in the future as I said and what
we're doing with the FDA is so exciting
in so many other fields so many things
are happening it's a very exciting time
for for medicine and we appreciate that
the American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it
for a long time and that means
democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good in the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going here's a case
we're paying a lot of money to stop
things because we don't want people to
be together so that this virus doesn't
continue onward so there's never been
anything like this in history there's
never been a nobody's ever seen anything
like this but we're doing the right
thing we have to get rid of in our big
war is not a it's not a financial war
it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you got these
two elements these two very important
drugs passed thank you very much thank
you mr. president I want to thank you
for your leadership during this corona
virus outbreak and thank you for the
kind words about the FDA staff we have
10,000 scientists doctors and others and
more than that working around the clock
to aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so before the president nominated me and
I was confirmed as commissioner from
drugs that was a cancer doctor and I've
sat across from countless number of
patients and had to talk to them about
their diagnosis in their treatment and
one thing that was really important is
to provide hope I have great hope for
how we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA the FDA
is committed to continuing to provide
regulatory flexibility
guidance but let me make one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide this support for the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up an incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is an addition and all of
government and all America approach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this every day we
need we need to make sure that these the
see of new treatments will get the right
drug to the right patient at the right
dosage at the right time as an example
we may have the right drug but it may
not be in the appropriate dosage form
right now
and that made you more harm than good
those are the things that that's our job
to look at and that's why it's really
important we have these dedicated
professionals looking at these aspects
of therapeutic development at the same
time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things there's
no promised the American people is we
will collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be can be
let me tell you about a few things that
we're currently working on and this is a
plan that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered and
asked and answered let me give you
another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA has
been working for some time on this
if you've been exposed to coronavirus
and you're better you don't have the
virus in your blood we could collect the
blood now this is a possible treatment
this is not a proven treatment just want
to emphasize that collect the blood
concentrate that and have the ability
once it's pathogen-free that is virus
free be able to give that to other
patients and the immunoglobulins the
immune response could potentially
provide a benefit to patients it's
another thing that we're looking at over
the next couple weeks we'll have more
information that we're really pushing
hard to try to accelerate that that's in
the sort of more medium short term and
that'll be a bridge to other therapies
that will take us three to six months to
develop and this is a continuous process
there is no beginning and end to each of
this this is you know we're pushing this
through the other great thing about the
great innovators of America some of them
tell us it's taken us years years to
develop therapies they're looking at
pushing that to the months period of
time and we're trying to provide them
the regulatory flexibility but at the
same time the scientific oversight to
make sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine
it's exciting work and the president is
right this is record time for the
development of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for copa90
thank you Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and on this very first
day of springg we continue to make
steady progress toward president Trump's
objective not only to marshal all the
resources of the federal government
every state government every every local
health official but also to harness the
power of the American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response Act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governors we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA and
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's legislation
estate and private labs are now required
by law to report all coronavirus testing
directly to the CDC which will give the
American public and also give our
researchers timely and important
information it's important for every
American to remember that if you don't
have symptoms you don't need to get a
test we want to make sure the testing is
available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the coronavirus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern she'll explain the
importance of taking into account our
new testing system as new data arrives
over the next several days on supplies a
priority the president has given to our
task force we continue to work with
healthcare providers businesses and
state leadership to identify available
supplies not merely in the federal
stockpile but much more importantly
available across the private sector
we're encouraged to see companies like
Honeywell and 3m that I visited a few
short weeks ago take advantage of the
changes in the law last night that allow
the sale of industrial masks directly to
hospitals those companies have now
greatly increased by the tens of
millions their production of so-called
n95 masks that will give our health care
workers the protection that they need to
minister to those that are dealing with
the symptoms or the disease of
coronavirus I'm following the signing of
last night's bill all of those masks now
have liability protection and the
companies can sell industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president who spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with our
local healthcare officials
on the subject of ventilators we're
working with healthcare providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that Bing can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together
and before I step away and and give the
podium back to the president and to dr.
Burks I want to call every American's
attention again to the president's 15
days to slow the spread we continue to
hear one case after another one city
after another where people are putting
into practice the principles that the
president outlined this Monday and make
no mistake about it that while for the
American people as a whole the risk of
serious illness remains low these
guidelines
should be practiced by every American in
every community not only to lessen the
spread of the corona virus but to
protect the most vulnerable among us and
I think Americans with their with from
their hearts are not only practicing
these principles of social distancing
and avoiding social gatherings of more
than 10 people using drive-throughs at
restaurants to protect their own health
and the health of their family but
they're also recognizing that no
American wants to inadvertently convey
the coronavirus to someone for whom the
consequences could be quite serious at
the president's direction will continue
to marshal all the resources of
government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governors
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
Thank You mr. president thank you very
much
thank you Thank You mr. president so I
know you're watching the data carefully
you can see the dramatic increases in
the number of new cases based on our
ability to test additional people and
this will continue over the next two to
three days as we begin to have backlogs
reduced of the testing you all have
heard the antidotes of people waiting
five or six days for their test results
we are moving through all of that as
well as testing individuals I really
want to applaud the frontline healthcare
workers the nurses and the doctors and
the testers that have really prioritized
and the American people who have a
prioritized those with symptoms the
number of tests positives is increasing
that is a dramatically important
signature that everybody is doing their
job those with mild symptoms are staying
home self isolating those with serious
symptoms are coming forward to getting
testing our test positive rates are now
into the ten to eleven percent range
that still means that 90 percent of the
illness is out there even the severe
ones are not covet nineteen I know many
of you are looking at the state-level
data still over 50% of the cases come
from three states this is why we
continue to prioritize testing in those
states in addition 50% of the cases come
from ten counties we're a very large
country with very many counties and I
just want to applaud the local and state
governments that are implementing their
emergency operation centers and plans to
ensure I want to also really thank the
health care workers that have been asked
to reduce all elective surgeries medical
and dental visits this will dramatically
increase the number of ventilators that
are available in hospitals but also in
ambulatory surgical centers that can be
converted and utilized and also the to
the construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits on suits
and their masks to contribute them to
the health care sector the President's
request to make this
available in that legislation changes
the ability and increases our
availability immediately by than 75 to
90% range because the amount of
construction use of those elements thank
you
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president huh
today you heard a wonderful announcement
from the FDA and I just want to give a
shout out to Steve dr. Hahn and the
folks at the FTA we're about what
several hundred of my commissioned Corps
officers work you're right mr. president
they are tireless they're doing things
that have never been done before to
bring the most most prudent advances to
the American people but I want to talk
about something different briefly we
know many of you are home practicing the
president's guidelines for social
distancing but one thing we should all
consider especially our Millennials in
Gen Z is donating blood as an
anesthesiologist who still practices at
Walter Reed taking care of our wounded
warriors and our soldiers I know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want America to know that blood donation
is safe and blood centers are taking
extra precautions at this time based on
new CDC recommendations including
spacing beds 6 feet apart disinfecting
surfaces between patient's temperature
checking staff and encouraging donors to
make appointments ahead of time so we
can space them out social distancing
does not have to mean social
disengagement so give blood today you'll
feel good about it and you'll be helping
your country and your community during
this crisis and you might even save a
life
yeah please
switching to the the peppers to boost
the economy with the commissioners for
Congress
will you guarantee that the money the
billions the tens of billions of dollars
hundreds of billions of dollars even
that's gonna go but to these industries
will not go to executive bonuses or to
more stock buybacks well we don't want
that in fact some companies as you know
did stock buybacks and I was never happy
with that it's very hard to tell them
not to but I would tell them not to I
would say I don't like it for that
reason some did and it turned out that
they could have waited a long time it
would have been much better off if they
did condition of the bill you could say
none of this morning can go when I'm
making have been you know it takes many
many people in this case to tango but as
far as I'm concerned that conditions
like that would be okay with me you
another question for dr. hunt
you enabled I guess is probably the best
way to put it the defense production act
yesterday beginning to pull the trigger
on it no because we hope we're not going
to need that your calls on Capitol Hill
from the Democratic leadership pull the
trigger on wait what's the rationale for
not doing first of all governors are
supposed to be doing a lot of this work
and they are doing a lot of this work
federal government's not supposed to be
out there buying vast amounts of items
and then shipping you know we're not a
shipping clerk the governors are
supposed to be as with testing the
governor suppose are supposed to be
doing it will help out and will help out
wherever we can and we can buy in volume
and in some cases great volume with the
masks as an example which were really a
problem we have helped out and they're
right now millions of masks being made
but this is really for the local
governments governors and people within
the state depending on the way they
divided it up and they'll do that and
they're doing a very good job of it
where you have a problem with
ventilators we're working very hard
trying to find nobody in their wildest
dreams would have ever thought that we
need tens of thousands of ventilators
this is something that's very unique to
this to what happened
what conditions would you put the
defense production Act into action well
if we were desperately in need of
something and we frankly will know about
that very shortly we want to be ahead of
we don't want to do it as it happens but
before it happens
we're going to know a lot over the next
2 or 3 days we'll know a lot any idea
when REM disappear will be available to
the market and are there any drugs in
the pipeline that you believe could
qualify for a treatment I updated so
with respect to the first question I'm
on prohibited by law to disclose
confidential commercial information what
I can tell you is we're working very
closely with the company on this and
we'll have additional information they
will relatively soon yes there are drugs
in the pipeline we're looking at
everyone everyone on this dais gets
calls every day as to all of our people
at the FDA about potential therapeutic
options we are looking at every single
one of them no I'm not we're trying to
find that out this has been going on for
years many years they've been trying to
find Austin Tice he was in Syria as you
know his mother is an incredible woman
and I'm doing it for him but I'm doing
it for his mother his mother's an
incredible woman who is desperate to
find her son and I'm not confirming a
lot but if if he is alive if we would
like very much to get him back quickly
okay and on coronavirus speaking of
shortages of supplies the CDC has put
out guidelines for hospitals that are
dealing with a shortage of mass to use
them beyond their shelf life and reuse
them
new ones and in a worst-case scenario
use a bandana instead of a mask how is
that acceptable at all well I haven't
seen that but I will let Mike answer
their question vice Prez
I'm happy to mr. president I just I
can't emphasize enough the incredible
progress that was made with the passage
of the legislation last night and
President had me go to Minnesota meet
with 3m that manufactures these in 95
mass a few weeks ago and we learned of
their production at that facility of 35
million mass a month less than five
million of those were qualified to be
sold to hospitals so the president
worked with Republican and Democrat
leadership we've extended the liability
protection so now that all the
industrial masks that are manufactured
as n95 s are now available to hospitals
and we're seeing a dramatic increase in
production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another 120 million mass per year 3m is
increasing output to 420 million masks
per year we really we've put a priority
at the president's direction on making
sure those that are providing health
care services to America have the
protection to keep themselves and their
families safe and with the legislation
last night with the incredible response
among these great privacy active
companies and as we mentioned repeatedly
with construction companies around
America heating the president's call to
donate their industrial mass to
hospitals is happening all over America
we know we'll meet that need
or at least we start getting them ready
well as I mentioned 3m is increasing
their output 420 million a year at
production and January they make 35
million per month at that facility and
we're we're prioritizing the
distribution of those but the other
thing and we'll emphasize this with
governor's this afternoon is we're
working with governor's to make sure
that the healthcare providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded thanks to a bipartisan
legislation and the accomplishment the
president and the response by these
companies is making more mass available
and we're going to make sure healthcare
providers are purchasing those and the
federal government will also make sure
that our stockpile is properly reflects
those increases as well they're
available now the 3m facility that I was
at told me in that in January they went
to full production on 35 million masks
the legislative change means that all 35
million of those that started to be
produced at full capacity in January can
now be sold to hospitals that's the
distinction here it's a very important
change and it's part of the way the
president has been engaging the private
sector pushing the kind of regulatory
reform and the kind of liability reform
that has greatly expanded the
availability of mass so they're in the
marketplace now we're gonna make it
clear to governor's as we made it clear
to healthcare providers in conference
calls yesterday that those resources are
now there we've vastly increased the
supply of medical mass and we're going
to continue to put a priority on making
sure that we're calling on industry at
every level calling on major suppliers
that the president met with this week to
make sure that those personal protective
equipment are there to do with the
liability to the company they had a big
problem with liability and much of it
had to do with the liability to the
[Applause]
thank you too for you in one part dr.
Han the American Hospital Association
just told NBC News that they need a
hundred billion dollars in order to
address shortages in equipment and other
infrastructure there you just signed two
legislative packages they say it didn't
directly give money to address this
issue why not and will you commit to me
looking at that issue directly with them
and that's a separate issue but we're
looking at that issue very directly very
well we're gonna do our best but we're
working with Democrats and Republicans
or that we're looking at that very
specifically you bottom-line people when
can Americans expect their lives to go
back to normal will that not happen
until there's a vaccine
I hope person will see this is uncharted
territory as you know we think we have
ideas it doesn't help to say what the
ideas I would hope very soon we're we've
pulled together as a nation people are
for the most part doing what they're
supposed to be doing the social
distancing is very interesting a whole
new term that's become a hot it's become
somewhat of a hot term but people are
listening and they're and they're really
doing a great job this country is an
amazing country I think you're up to 141
different countries right now so it's
very uncharted territory it could have
could have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it a number of
months before people started reading
about it excuse me excuse me before we
started reading about we could have it
could have been stopped in its tracks
unfortunately they didn't decide to make
it public but the whole world is
suffering because of it
this was a pandemic it was coming so why
was the United States not prepared with
more testing we were very prepared the
only thing we weren't prepared for was
the the media the media has not treated
it fairly I'll tell you how prepared I
was I called for a band from people
coming in from China long before anybody
thought it was in fact it was your
Network I believe they called me a
racist because I did that it was many of
the people in the room they called me
racist and other words because I did
that because I went so early so when you
say we weren't prepared had I left these
tens of thousands of people come in from
China a day we would have had something
right now that would have been you
wouldn't have even recognized it
compared to where we are how many people
have passed away how many people have
died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
band now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's true but they don't want
to governor's are saying they don't have
access to respirators and they're
terrified what is you're supposed to get
it the states is supposed to get it but
we're helping the states look for years
they bought them and now all of a sudden
they're coming to the federal government
we're working with the states we're
working with the governors we're working
with everybody the relationships are
great one of the things that happened
this morning I spoke with Micky Arison
of Carnival Cruise Lines and he's going
to make ships available so in addition
to the big medical ships that you have
coming if we should need ships with lots
of rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Mickey Eris
and that's Carnival Cruise Lines
about invoking the defense production
I've done it yeah if if we find that we
need something that we will do that and
you don't know what we've done you don't
know whether or not we've ordered you
don't know if we've invoked it you don't
know what's been ordered what's not
going on I can only tell you I can only
tell you that as an example masks nobody
ever heard of the number of mass that's
been ordered they're being made now and
many are available now but people I
think in the media probably don't know
that could you explain the gap and for
the American people and what you're
saying here today about there being tens
of thousands of tests available about
how they're being a huge amount of masks
available and what we're sitting on the
ground which is really the opposite of
that people are people are saying that
they can't get tested even when they
have symptoms people are saying that
they doctors are telling us they don't
have access to vital equipment can you
explain that gap well I can't I cannot
explain a gap I'm hearing very good
things on the ground and we're dealing
with love they had a ramp up they had an
obsolete system and they had a system
simultaneously that was not meant for
this it wasn't meant for this nobody
knew there'd be a pandemic or an
epidemic of this proportion nobody's
ever seen anything like this before I
can tell you that what we're doing is
we're working with local governments
with states governors even mayors on
getting them to be able to get what they
need and the system is starting to work
out very well but we had a breaker
system like breaking an egg because the
system we had was obsolete and didn't
work and that was a system we inherited
and now we have something that's really
been very good and certainly going to be
great for the future too yeah
your supporters about a corporate
bailout in particular senator my bronze
say it's been hearken back to 2008 where
we're picking winners and losers and his
colleagues may not be comfortable with
it what do you say well we don't want to
pick winners and losers we want
everybody to benefit we want I think
more than anything else the workers to
benefit and sometimes for the worker to
benefit you have to go through the
company because they have thousands of
workers and if the company goes out of
business no fault of their own those
workers aren't going to be able to
receive a check so we're look our
ultimate goal or the people our ultimate
goal of the great people of this country
and we will have things worked out I
think that are going to be very well
it's a very complex formula you
understand that very complex but it's
working out I think it's going to be
very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please put
out an advisory Kelly Americans not to
travel overseas at all are you putting
in an overseas travel we're speaking
with the State Department later I can't
say right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet aspect on about today's
announcement if I hear whose background
thank you so much I wanted to ask out
rent rent severe I don't pronounce that
correctly
can you tell say it currently approved
for use on the virus so REM des aveer
and it's a drug made by Gilead that's
been in the press it is currently in
clinical trials here and around the
world we have also made it available by
that approach that I told you called
compassionate use where a doctor could
ask the FDA for that and the really
positive thing about that that gives it
rapidly to a doctor and a patient but it
allows us to collect the data because
what we really need to do is understand
what the data and science are in order
to make the appropriate decision about
safety and effectiveness so how do you
just make sure that it is safe and I
mean is there any concern at all that it
will be safe considering
it's not going through the normal
process and and could potentially cause
negative effects dr. pouchy earlier
talked about we do not want to put out
anything that could cause a negative
effects is there any concern about those
kind of things we rip this drugs yeah
thank you for that question because I
just want to be clear about this
Ramez aveer is going through the normal
process we are using our internal
processes at FDA to set up with the
company the protocols to actually
collect the data and you're right we
need to actually know about the safety
and the effectiveness and that's done
through the clinical trial process so
it's those data that are going to inform
the decisions that are ultimately made
about safety and effect this is an
unprecedented situation this is a really
significant time and one thing that with
the president's leadership FDA has done
is said okay how do we approach these
extraordinary times with extraordinary
measures knowing that we have a sacred
trust with the American people about
safety and efficacy but still at the
same time enable these treatments to get
into patients and that's what we're
doing how likely is it that the 15 day
guidance that you would approve will be
extended I can only tell you that before
Tuesday they will have to say well we'll
have indications later on dr. Burks
indicated that there are three states
and ten counties if I got that right
where 50% of the cases are focused
should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place
I think they actually are doing a lot I
mean I know New York is working very
diligently been very strong I assume San
Francisco's one of the areas in Los
Angeles and the state of Washington
obviously that's one that has to be up
there they're all working very hard to
to quarantine or words just about the
equivalent of quarantine plan serves
more government workers
moving for the government as well to
start doing more teleworking
we are and we're doing we're using the
medical term of telemedicine and it's
been incredibly busy and really you know
what people don't have to ever eat some
people can't do it anyway they can't get
up they can't see a doctor but we're
using this and it's been telehealth
different names and I will tell you that
it's been really successful it's helped
a lot of people out where they don't
have to and they can't and even from a
safety reason if they are positive they
are if they are feeling poorly they
can't do it or we don't want them
transmitting anything to anybody else on
China they reported for the first time
since the outbreak no new cases over a
24-hour period do you have any reason to
disbelieve them and second to that the
National Security Council yesterday put
out a tweet very critical of the Chinese
government saying the Chinese Communist
Party suppressed initial reports and the
Chinese virus and punished doctors and
journalists causing Chinese and
international experts to miss critical
opportunities to prevent a global
pandemic could you explain it would have
much better if we had known about this a
number of months earlier it could have
been contained to that one area in China
where it started and certainly the world
is paying a big price for what they did
and the world is paying a very big price
but not for not letting them come out
everybody knows that we all know that as
far as as far as believing what they're
putting out now I hope it's true who
knows but I hope it's true you've been
talking about China quite a bit and
you've been talking about the Chinese
virus how if you have heard about this
on day one and had more information
possibly you could have stopped a big
difference are you thinking about any
types of repercussions for China and are
you also rethinking sort of the supply
lines
for our manufacture engine I don't want
to comment on that right now
yeah I have a question for you and also
a question for dr. Burks at you American
workers across the country are losing
their jobs an unprecedented rate and
your former economist said we could see
some of the worst job numbers ever is
the government prepared to see the spike
in unemployment no worst case scenario
you would have terrible job numbers if
we can get this thing wrapped up and
finished earlier things will go very
nicely and one of the things they're
working as you know one of the elements
that is being worked on very much so in
the hill as to keep the jobs going so
that when we do get rid of the virus
we're going to be able to just really I
think go like a rocket I think the
economy is gonna be fantastic know when
he said that he was using that as the
ultimate bad outcome I don't think
anybody believes that's gonna happen
members of Congress are not being tested
positive for rotavirus and you have
almost two dozen for self quarantine do
you have any guidance for Congress
should they I know all of them and I
don't know if they're sitting like you
people are sitting you're actually
sitting too close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just we get a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close you know Yuki
you should leave immediately but but
look look I know all of them they tested
positive hopefully they're all going to
get better and it's one of those things
it's Congress you know
so they keep going to the Heller Bank I
know somewhere they tested positive
they're in quarantine and I know Lindsey
and many others are they they didn't
test it but until they got the result
they put themselves in quarantine a
number of people in Congress right now
are in quarantine they don't know the
results when they get the result they'll
leave this stay there and get better
because people get better I mean most
people are getting better most by far
the people are you get better doesn't
mean it's not a tough one it is a tough
one
but now when they many people in
Congress have felt not perfect or they
met somebody that wasn't perfect it
turned out to be positive and they've
put themselves in quarantine and I think
I think Congress has behaved
unbelievably well in that regard do you
think a trillion-dollar stimulus is
enough well know about that later Oh
we'll see what happens it depends how
long so much depends on what's going on
in this room in terms of the medical if
we can stop it in its tracks the virus
it's plenty if we can't we'll have to go
back and talk do you support the idea of
the government taking an equity stake in
certain companies people are coming
people are coming in for money in some
cases no fault of their own but in some
cases where they did certain things over
the course of the years including by
buying back stock you know they bought
back stock and they paid a high price
for it as it turned out but maybe I view
that as a little bit differently than
somebody that didn't and somebody that
bill plants all over the United States
of which there were plenty of them two
airlines are Boeing or what what do you
think we will be helping the airline
industry we will be helping the cruise
ship industry we probably will be
helping the hotel industry will probably
be where jobs are created you don't want
to lose industries like this these are
incredible industries you can't lose
them so we'll be focused on many
industries and I have to say I can't say
that struggle enough we will be helping
small businesses that's where it's
complicated because
a lot of small you know that's the
engine of the of the country we will be
helping small business these will be
birds that you need to pause this one
trillion dollar stimulus package for the
economy do you expect this to slow down
the delivery of checks for American
families and are you considering any new
executive action that could be we're
looking at a couple of things that I
could do hopefully won't need it but we
can do was there's a lot of executive
power if we don't have to use it that
would be a good thing not a bad thing
yep pleases Thank You mr. president
one for you and potentially as well one
for dr. Burgess dr. Adams right now the
economy is essentially ground to a halt
thanks for telling us we appreciate some
close travel has slowed down
go ahead what's the rush equation we
know that everybody in the room knows it
the question is how long should those
who are either not working right now or
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs as it stands
at this moment to play out and for for
the doctors behind you'll be able to
tell you that very I think in the near
future
we'll see where we're going you're gonna
see numbers you've seen the graphs
you're gonna see numbers and we'll be
able to let you know I will say that the
American public has been incredible for
the most part not at all cases but for
the most part so you'll be able to see
what's happening over the nest as we say
we had a 15 day period you'll be able to
tell a lot in a week or so not
everything but we'll be able to see over
a period of time and for all the parents
that are home right now this is a
question for dr. burns or dr. Adams who
are caring for their children and are
curious as to when my kids be able to go
back to school what do you think is a
realistic timeline
well I think you know most of all of
those decisions are made at the state
and local government level and each
state and local government has handled
it differently that's why we put out
from the president federal federal
presidential guidance to every single
person about what we think is important
for the next two weeks and as we look at
that data we'll be able to see if it's
having an impact I think you've all seen
the modeling studies those were driven
by the modeling studies showing that you
add these things together they have a
bigger impact than separately and so
those are part of the decision-making we
had a whole group of modelers in
yesterday they're compositing all the
data together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously the acts of selflessness that
I am seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion if chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine works or any of the
other things that they're looking at
they're not quite as far out but if they
work your numbers are going to come down
very rapidly so we'll see what happens
but there's a real chance that they
might they might work go ahead in the
back
like the president of Brazil who just
saw Sunday was taking photos with
supporters in gorging mass demonstration
and just yesterday president from Brazil
said that we should not be surprised if
we see him in the next few days in a
crowded subway in Sao Paulo or in a buzz
in Rio because he is the president it
should be the people what do you think
about that what's your message
well he's a friend of mine number one
and number two we had dinner the other
night and everybody said he was positive
and he wasn't positive he tested
negative so that was I I was quite happy
when I heard that but I have no message
for a mother than he's doing a good job
in Brazil good job in Brazil he's very
popular encouraging mass demonstration
of these boys I can't tell you about
that I don't know about that I have not
heard that he's doing a very good job
Brazil was very troubled before he got
there and he's the people loved him and
popular I think he's doing a very good
job there are Americans who were
travelling abroad or essentially stopped
unable to come home we spoke to a green
beret ten women who Americans to wear
her well we spoke to ten American women
who were in Morocco for instance all the
flights have been cancelled their hotel
is shutting down they literally have no
place to stay and no way to get home
they are asking you they're asking the
administration the US government for
help what can be done we know about it
we have groups we have a group of young
people in in Peru and we're working on
taking care of that with the military
yeah we're looking to take no not
evacuation what we're trying to get them
out and you know they got caught they
were late with their flights we gave
them a period of time they didn't make
it but we're looking to get them out
with military probably through the
military we have a group of young young
people I think young men or young people
could be women also with them from
Alabama the great state of Alabama and
there in Peru and we're working on that
right now trying to get them out it's a
large group it's about 300 well we're
gonna work it out Jeff the president too
of foreign policy related questions and
your talk with the g7 leaders earlier
this week did you discuss together
ending or postponing the Olympics yeah
we discuss it as you know Prime Minister
Abbey was on the call and that's a big
decision for him and we don't know what
his decision is but we'd live with his
decision it's a tough situation they've
done an incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with the same thing that the
rest of the world got hit with
unexpectedly he has he has told us that
he has not made a decision as to what to
do so on foreign policy have you spoken
to the leaders of Saudi Arabia or Russia
and encouraged them to stop this glut of
oil that is detected in the market well
the one thing I will tell you is that
from the standpoint you always get a
little bit torn because you know until
we became the leading producer I was
always for the person driving the car
and filling up the tank of gas and you'd
have gasoline and the prices were if
they were too high I would always raise
hell with OPEC and I was always somebody
that liked saying I never thought I'd
see 22 and 24 and 28 dollars a barrel
but that's what we have and in one way
our consumer is very much helped it's
like it's like a massive tax increase
that's bigger than any tax increase
decreased that you could give you know
we can give all these big tax cuts but
they're paying so little for gasoline
but on the other hand it hurts a great
industry and a very powerful industry so
I spoke with numerous people that have a
lot to do with it
and we have a lot of power over the
situation and we're trying to find some
kind of a medium ground you know it's
it's very devastating to Russia because
when you look I mean the whole economy
is based on that and they have we have
the lowest oil prices in decades so it's
very devastating to Russia
say it's very bad for Saudi Arabia but
they were in a fight they were in a
fight on price they were to fight on
output and at the at the appropriate
time I'll get involved the Carnival
cruise ships be used for well Mickey
called up and he said if you need them
and we haven't said yes I'll call
Governor Cuomo I'll I'll call Gavin from
gavin newsom governor from california
I'll call a few of the other governors
they're going to bring it up today
because we're meeting through phone
through telephone telephonically as they
say in a little while at FEMA I'm going
go to FEMA from here well you could
increase places to stay let's say places
to stay if it works I mean you know I
don't know maybe people won't want him
but he made the offer it was a very
generous offer and he said that he has
some ships that would be ideally suited
for what we're doing and certainly they
have a lot of rooms they're big and have
a lot of rooms so we appreciate it from
Carnival you're talking about not
needing it right now if you're not
showing any symptoms but a lot of eating
the tests or only getting tested if
you're showing symptoms but a lot of
this well you should only good we should
I didn't have any symptoms that I got a
test but I got a test because you people
were driving everybody crazy so that's
the only reason I had no symptoms but I
had a test and my doctor told me don't
get it you don't need it everybody said
you don't need it but I had to do it
because the press was going crazy and
then after I got it they said you
shouldn't have gotten it you had no
symptoms you know the whole thing so in
other words if you get it it was no good
but that's I'm a unique case
unfortunately but no people that don't
show symptoms and people that have
doctors that say they shouldn't get it I
would rely on that yeah I would rely on
that
Thank You mr. president thank you I have
two questions do you consider the term
OAS truly very nicely do you consider
the term Chinese food racist no its food
that originates in China it has no I
don't think it's racist I don't think
it's racist at all
on that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
they are claiming you are racist for
making these claims about Chinese parts
it's an alarming that major media
players just oppose you are consistently
siding with foreign state propaganda
Islamic rather than some Latin gangs and
cartels and they work right here at the
White House with direct access to you
and your team it amazes me when I read
the things that I read it amazes me when
I read The Wall Street Journal which is
always so negative it amazes me when I
read the New York Times is not even I
don't i barely read it you know we don't
distribute it in the White House anymore
in the same thing with the Washington
Post because you see I know the truth
and people out there in the world they
really don't know that they don't know
what it is they use different slogans
and different concepts for me almost
every week trying to catch something
last week it was all chaos you see me
this is okay I said no chaos I'm the one
telling everybody to be calm there's no
chaos at the White House we have
unbelievable professionals it's really I
mean I think I came up with the term I
hope I came up with the term but it is
fake news it's more than fakeness it's
corruptness they write stories without
calling anybody they write a story today
I had a couple of stories where they
never call me ever that I know of at
least nobody tells me they'll write a
story about me without even asking my
opinion on something it's totally fake
I've never seen I mean there is a story
in the Wall Street Journal today about
you know about how we've done we've done
a phenomenal job on this the governor's
even even gavin newsom who you know i'm
usually fighting with over the fires and
I think you should do a different kind
of a job at the in the forests and lots
of things we've we argue a lot but Gavin
Newsom has been very very generous
generous Andrew Cuomo has been really
very generous I mean they're saying
we're doing a great job and everybody's
saying but then you read this faint
phony story in the Wall Street Journal
or where the Washington Post is going
wild lately I don't know what happened
to them I guess something happened like
we don't call them back or whatever but
the Washington Post these are very
dishonest media sources they're very
dishonest and you know what someday
hopefully in five years I won't be here
and that'll be fine I will have done I
think a great job because I don't think
anyone's done as much in
three-and-a-half years as I've done I
don't think and the administration this
administration is done a great job but
the press is very dishonest well I think
they do I mean I mean they are siding
with they are siding with China they are
doing things that they shouldn't be
doing deciding with many others China is
the least of it so why why they're doing
this you'll have to ask them but if we
had an honest media in this country our
country would be an even greater place
so ladies and gentlemen thank you very
much we are very excited about we are
very excited about in specifically what
we talked about with the chloroquine I
think the I think it could be something
really incredible it could totally
depress the times that we had mentioned
wait excuse me excuse me it could
totally depressed but a lot of reasons
that I would have to think that it could
have a very positive effect or a
positive effect maybe not very but maybe
maybe positive I think it's to me very
very exciting and the beauty is I think
I can say this Steve the beauty is that
these drugs have been out there so the
really danger part of the drugs
especially chloroquine it's been out
there for years so we know it
something that can be taken safely so
it's very important to expedite this and
what I want to assure you because of the
questions that were asked we want to
make sure that this is done well and
right for the American people the
president is right with an off-the-shelf
drug we do have a lot of information
about the side effects of the drug so
that really helps in terms of expediting
but but I want to show you that we're
working as quickly as we can
I don't want to speculate about a
timeline at this point with respect to
vaccines that's in phase one trial as I
mentioned we're expecting that to
proceed moving forward and we're working
with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development
phase one was fast-tracked
is it possible phase 2 and phase 3 can
be fast-tracked that we might see a
vaccine before that year you get you
said it could potentially be you this is
a terrific question and we are really
trying hard at FDA to partner with great
industry great academic partners to do
exactly that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much as possible and
they are
have other times to meet will be meeting
hopefully not for very long I mean I
would like to see this get cleared up
and we think we've to me this was a very
important conference because I really
think there's great potential here and a
lot of people are gonna be trying it
soon like literally very soon literally
in a matter of days if not sooner in
some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it this whole subject
becomes a much more pleasant subject so
thank you all and we'll we're going over
to FEMA now so I don't know who's going
but we're going to FEMA we're gonna be
discussing with the governors and lots
of other people know what I think well
we just wrapped up the today's briefing
from the coronavirus task force
President Trump let it and you'll be
forgiven if you sort of had forgotten
what were the news headlines out of it
the president's own personal grievances
seemed to dominate the the large chunk
of that but there was some important
information that was said by others in
that briefing number one FEMA is taking
the lead response here throughout the
nation you heard vice president Pence
say that at one point dr. Burks noted
that statistically it's three states
that essentially are the hot spots right
now with half the cases 310 counties
account for 50% of the cases right now
sort of her point they're saying that we
that that is one way to sort of
concentrate resources right now but she
emphasized again that the guidelines
that are out there
Tanner let include that include not
getting into any groups of more than ten
people let me go to dr. Torres first our
medical correspondent because the other
I think the other point of this briefing
today was to try to highlight what the
FDA is doing with trying to fast-track
some drugs that can at least help with
treatment
this is not a vaccine this is just with
treatment what more can you tell us
about these drugs dr. Torres and Chuck
you're right one of the things they
highlighted is what the FDA is doing to
try and get us three different forms of
treatment essentially the vaccine is the
last one that's the one it can take a
year year and a half and they talked
about possibly fast-tracking that that's
a little tough to do because biology
only moves at a certain pace but then
they talked about a couple of other
things that can help bridge the gap one
of them are the medicines that they're
saying they're looking for approval
don't have approval yet but they can be
used on this compassionate used basis
and one of them be severe which is a
medicine it's experimental at this stage
but it's showing promise the other one
chloroquine which is a malaria medicine
that's been around since the 1930s on
top of that they're also saying that
this plasma you can get from other
survivors might help what is that okay
just so that means if you're diagnosed
with corona virus you're they can't seem
to what is it that this drug will help
so in the treatment part of this
they call it convalescent serum so if
somebody's diagnosed with Kovac 19 with
a disease they recover from it they're
still gonna have those antibodies in
their blood they get that blood they
process it and then they give it to
somebody else who has the disease and
those antibodies kick in it gives them a
couple of weeks maybe a couple of months
of those antibodies to fight it off
until hopefully this medicine or this
vaccine comes to fruition
these are all just bridging the gaps
until we get to that vaccine that's the
main point
gotcha dr. Torres thank you there let me
go to Stephanie ruhle on what we heard
we heard the prep probably the biggest I
guess news again I'll put that in quotes
from him but he said he was in favor of
equity stakes and I'm sure that is what
a lot of people heard I'm sure you heard
that Stephanie our headline today in
first three was the era of small
government is over yes it is the
government is going to be owning some
companies if they want help from the
taxpayers according to president Trump
yes but what we're hearing more and more
though people like that there are some
stimulus people from the business
community are saying this is just the
beginning it's going to have to be
significantly bigger and one thing the
president said that most business
leaders just do not agree with is this V
curve he keeps saying that the economy
is going down because of Corona and as
soon as the numbers go down it's gonna
spike back up
see across the board chalk are saying
this thing is gonna look a whole lot
more like a you we're not gonna snap
back in you think corporate travel is
gonna zip back into gear and a couple of
months the answer's no right no there
does seem to be he seems to be having
some denial about modeling's on the
health front as well as the economic
front there but Stephanie ruhle thank
you then let me go to Kristen Welker and
Kristen I have to say that was that was
candidate Donald Trump at times it feels
like the grievances are back
whatever whatever focus he was on being
the wartime president over the last
couple of days seemed to go out the
window he seems to be just looking for
reasons to be upset about things what
what and he certainly seems to not want
to take any accountability on the field
on the testing debacle that clearly has
held back our response incredibly
defiant Chuck when I asked him about
that and the clear lack of preparation
when it comes to testing I mean the
government has acknowledged that they
didn't initially have enough tests in
place now they are ramping that effort
up and yet there are still some areas
where there are shortages I also did
though Chuck asked him about the
American Hospital Association asking for
a hundred billion dollars he said they
are working with the Association on
getting those funds to them and of
course we know that the President and
Congress now working on a third stimulus
package on Capitol Hill Chuck but it was
odd to hear him say hey the states need
to deal with this stuff we're not a
shipping clerk I believe he used at one
point saying it was the states that
needed to go get this equipment that's
right and that's why governors have
pushed back against that and have said
we need more of a federal response as it
relates to getting this critical medical
equipment truck alright Kristen Welker
at the White House Stephanie ruhle for
us on the business for us dr. John
Torres our medical correspondent thank
you we will of course continue to follow
all these developments in this crisis
Lester Holt will be back with not only a
wrap-up on nightly news tonight but he's
coming back again at 10:00 9:00 central
for a tremendous one hours NBC News
special report on the corona virus
pandemic and we'll be back on the air
before then